Ed March: We come in. So she's running late anyway.
Helena Rouhe: Go ahead and share your screen.
Helena Rouhe: So I can let him and stuff.
Ed March: But my bottom line is I my ass off for three people. I really want kind of walk from my asking for three. Okay.
Ed March: All right, I'll see you
Ed March: Thank you. Okay, thank you.
Okay.
Helena Rouhe: Hi, Ryan.
Helena Rouhe: Can you hear me.
Ryan Ashoo: Hello, how are you
Helena Rouhe: Good. Do you have had some
Ryan Ashoo: No know I'm in my car.
Okay.
Helena Rouhe: All right, well, it's good to see you. How are you doing with all of the world's craziness.
Ryan Ashoo: Right, it's you know hectic.
Mm hmm.
Helena Rouhe: So how is this affecting you. What's been going on for you since the last time I saw you feel like there's been a lot happening.
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, so I got another job that part time which is good because I just got laid off from my other one
Huh.
Helena Rouhe: You okay in a restaurant or something right before
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, I'm actually still working in a restaurant, but it's only part time it's right down the street from my new out
Ryan Ashoo: Oh, but the my other job I got laid off from yesterday so
Helena Rouhe: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: So, are you okay with where you're going to live for a little while. Are you feeling like you've got that covered. Or what are the ramifications of the layoff.
Ryan Ashoo: Though I'm filing for unemployment.
Ryan Ashoo: I don't really have any other choice. I have to. Otherwise, I'm not gonna pay my rent and
Ryan Ashoo: Like my rent and I don't have a place to live, are going to buy me me me good.
Helena Rouhe: Night.
Ryan Ashoo: No incredible because none of this is my fault. And I really don't want to end up going back to something that I didn't do anything wrong. And, you know,
Helena Rouhe: Right.
Ryan Ashoo: It makes it difficult definitely stressful.
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Well, I think that they're, you know, the hard and fast rules of yesteryear maybe going to be a little bit lightened to your point, because it's not your fault, but at the same time. That doesn't mean you shouldn't be making
Helena Rouhe: Every effort to be proactive and follow up on what you need to do on your side. So
Ryan Ashoo: Right. You know, I was going to apply for more jobs, but they shut down all the businesses down here in these little towns.
Ryan Ashoo: And the company that I'm working for right now, it's just a little like Mom and Pop restaurant.
Ryan Ashoo: But
Ryan Ashoo: You know she's not closing where instead of closing. You can't have customers were just going to deliver people food and have certainly right
Ryan Ashoo: I mean, keep pointing away from
Ryan Ashoo: And keep really really trying to help me out because he said that if I lose my place of that because like a
Ryan Ashoo: Trailer on her property and he says that he'll help me clean it up and clean it out and to let me move in there.
Ryan Ashoo: And, you know, really trying. Usually we're only open from eight in the morning to be in the afternoon.
Ryan Ashoo: Mondays is the only days that I work all day there, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. I only work from six in the morning and in the morning, but that that with everything going on because everywhere else to shut down is going to be people stay open for like nine o'clock at night.
Ryan Ashoo: Well, okay. Let me read it to myself for all my meetings with my counselor and stuff. And then I can go back workout to that.
Ryan Ashoo: For them good
Good.
Helena Rouhe: Well, that sounds like a great plan and you can't ask for anything better than that. Right. Given these crazy circumstances.
Ryan Ashoo: And it can I getting a job with
Ryan Ashoo: It was kind of cool because I didn't. I wasn't applying for it. I did. I went in to get breakfast one morning and I was talking to one of the people there.
Ryan Ashoo: And they were saying, me, me at work every day and they asked me to go over there. And I said, Yes. And he asked me if I am cooking experience of, like, yeah, I'm a cook right now and
Ryan Ashoo: And he was like, Well, are you interested in the job. And I was like, actually yes like only part time time. I was like, well, that's cool. Cuz I'm only working part time now. Right.
Ryan Ashoo: Right, it worked out. And then I got laid off here. You know, so
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Well, hopefully this will work out this new thing. It sounds like that's a, you know, she's going to try and help you out. So that sounds really good.
Helena Rouhe: So are you guys still able to do meetings and things like that. They're not shutting down
Ryan Ashoo: Meeting no area.
Ryan Ashoo: From what I
Helena Rouhe: Do and
Ryan Ashoo: I talked to one of my counselors out here, and I guess the parole office is closed. Mm hmm. So I'm not sure how are checking with our shows are supposed to work. I'm on an ankle bracelet, so they can still monitor me show it. I mean,
Helena Rouhe: You have a phone number to be able to just
Helena Rouhe: Call and chicken.
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah. And so I think that's what they're going to have everybody do is go home.
Ryan Ashoo: Oh, so as far as counseling goes my counselor is for have a private concert. So she wasn't affected by the state shut down.
Ryan Ashoo: Okay, and she said she's going to stay open. Okay, that is patients are worried about getting sick or whatever that they don't have to come in, they do it over the phone, but as long as we're not worried about it. Don't worry about it.
Ryan Ashoo: Mm hmm.
Helena Rouhe: Well, good. So I'm glad to hear that. You sound like you still have some decent support in a plan to kind of manage your responsibilities.
Ryan Ashoo: Good.
Helena Rouhe: So how are things going with your family with your sister and all of that excitement that was going on before
Ryan Ashoo: I mean,
Ryan Ashoo: I don't know. I don't know what her thing is. And the reason this dude and then goes back to them and then leaves and goes back from it and let it go. And then about two and a half weeks ago.
Ryan Ashoo: She was getting ready to go out of town for work and there's an old man now you're in one of the towns and does he used to take care of him. We had like
Ryan Ashoo: I don't know, broken dead for or something like that. And so to take care of them. And then he asked me to go with her to help her boots. Some of the furniture and when we got there. We had killed themselves.
Helena Rouhe: My lord,
Ryan Ashoo: God himself in the head. And so, you know, definitely having problems.
Ryan Ashoo: You know, so it's been stressful. I've tried to be there for her life. And, you know,
Ryan Ashoo: When I walked in the house and I seen him. I tried to stop her from walking around the corner.
Ryan Ashoo: But he walked in any way.
Ryan Ashoo: So when she went outside. I will cover them up and then we call the cops and the ambulance, everybody. And, you know, they came and
Ryan Ashoo: kind of stuck because of me being on for old they were kind of treating me like I did it. They took us to the police station question us for like eight hours, and they were building
Ryan Ashoo: And I
Ryan Ashoo: Told them. I'm like, you guys can track me every movement of the day you guys said that he's been dead for like 12 hours, then you know I wasn't there.
Ryan Ashoo: And it says they wouldn't leave us alone and wasn't so much me that I was bad about like desert. They had no reason to talking to her, the way they were. And so I kind of lost my cool with them.
Ryan Ashoo: You know i i did the end up getting a hold of client hurting somebody in 30 days down there.
Ryan Ashoo: But I have to call my PO, they were trying to arrest me and I kind of got upset. Probably a little more upset than I should have said something that I probably shouldn't have said, but
Ryan Ashoo: You know, there was a lot of things going on. It was very hectic and I do
Ryan Ashoo: I don't do good in situations like that, especially when I feel like I'm being cornered. Yeah.
Ryan Ashoo: So,
Helena Rouhe: Well, do you feel like, I mean,
Helena Rouhe: Is this something you can learn from as far as what
Helena Rouhe: Its gonna be terrible situation. I don't know if that's something we can learn from someone to survive, but
Ryan Ashoo: I mean, I guess, kind of, in that sense, but
Ryan Ashoo: Oh,
Ryan Ashoo: I know it's not really a good thing, but I'm kind of seeing things like that so
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, we didn't affect me.
Ryan Ashoo: As much
Ryan Ashoo: As my sister and I like to get some talk to one of the counselors out here that I see.
Ryan Ashoo: Because free counseling and things like that. I thought it would be a good idea for my sister to go but
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, things like that. We can't force upon people, they have to decide when they want to manage it and sometimes they can manage it on their own, and other times they're going to need somebody to talk to. But they won't do it unless they're ready so
Helena Rouhe: I think to being available with the information so she can be
Helena Rouhe: Ready new
Helena Rouhe: Take it when she's ready to receive it.
Ryan Ashoo: Right, you know, having a lot of trouble sleeping, yes.
Ryan Ashoo: You know, it just kind of mentor up very fast. So
Ryan Ashoo: Rough and then, you know, dealing with that and then dealing with it. Do that off and on with and, you know, then the house that I was living with her at when I had to go speak to the first boyfriend.
Ryan Ashoo: Couldn't afford the rent.
Ryan Ashoo: got kicked out and now she's kind of bouncing for please, please.
Ryan Ashoo: No staying in hotels here they're leaving us out of nowhere to go.
Ryan Ashoo: And I worry about that, especially with everything going on now know everywhere, getting shut down and it just
Ryan Ashoo: I worry about her being done you know it. Things are starting to get hectic.
Ryan Ashoo: They just activated the National Guard out here. So I don't know.
Ryan Ashoo: Oh really. Oh, that's probably going to happen with that.
Ryan Ashoo: And my P O letter come stay with me so right. You know, I've kind of been doing that anyway might feel fine. Val. I'm going to give my lead for the way but
Ryan Ashoo: It is what it is. I'm not exactly going to be on the screen, especially with all this but not have anything in particular for
Ryan Ashoo: Sure.
Helena Rouhe: Is there anywhere else. She can say that you would feel like it's trustworthy enough or no.
Ryan Ashoo: No, but you throw Gabby and I don't want to wait now.
Ryan Ashoo: I mean, the last couple weeks, you've been asked to do
Ryan Ashoo: And so he's been definitely struggling with that thank you know but
Ryan Ashoo: I've been there and being put out on the street when you're going to that you're just going to go right back to it. There's no way around
Ryan Ashoo: So I would rather take the risk of having like to Pepsi and violate the event.
Ryan Ashoo: ever go back using and dying on
Helena Rouhe: Well, let me just throw something else out there if you get violated, you have to go back to jail where she gonna say she say where you're saying
Ryan Ashoo: They were my houses. Yeah. So landlord, we'll just let her take over the least feel comfortable
Helena Rouhe: Well, hopefully you don't get violated that I would, you know, see if there's a way to have a conversation with your PO so that you can be
Helena Rouhe: Having an opportunity to be
Helena Rouhe: upfront about what's going on. And maybe it's just something along the lines of, I'm still really concerned about my sister. She's never any workspace to say, can you give me any suggestions. I'm really worried about her safety. I don't want to go back out on the street.
Helena Rouhe: Now maybe
Helena Rouhe: See her case and see if
Ryan Ashoo: She has
Ryan Ashoo: Other options. I kind of already talked to her about it and she really wasn't willing to put
Ryan Ashoo: Up their hands like this group, go to joy junction
Ryan Ashoo: Which is like a homeless shelter.
Ryan Ashoo: And I'm not going to do that.
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Well, I think that if even if the conversation that you have with your PO was a couple of days ago. Things are changing. It's such a quick pace. Maybe you can talk to your PO again and see if there would be a different option because things are changing.
Helena Rouhe: Now every day. And maybe there would be
Helena Rouhe: A willingness to kind of see other things like I guess it's okay for to stay with you, but just, you know,
Helena Rouhe: Keep me in the loop or
Helena Rouhe: Make it just be better for you if you could have
Ryan Ashoo: You know,
Helena Rouhe: Have that be aboveboard and not something that you're having to worry about.
Helena Rouhe: So you need to make your own decisions there obviously that I just want to advocate for you to continue to have those conversations, just because I think
Helena Rouhe: The world is a very fluid place right now. And I think that was what was true, you know, even a week ago. It's not necessarily true today and hopefully
Helena Rouhe: You could convince your PO to kind of see
Helena Rouhe: Some other options other than just the whole bunch
Of
Ryan Ashoo: Really
Helena Rouhe: A good solution given what you're talking about with pretty much the three plus right so
Helena Rouhe: Then as well. And the is your sister working, what is she doing to kind of keep yourself busy during the day.
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, working and her company isn't really affected by a while. I mean, I get to a point, it is but
Ryan Ashoo: She does.
Ryan Ashoo: merchandising for a company called Apollo. So he goes to like gas stations and ballparks and miss and places like that and
Ryan Ashoo: That's up displays and you know stock new certain items that they're only having for, you know, certain period nine or whatever and
Ryan Ashoo: Things like that. So, and if she doesn't all over the state. So I'm luckily travel kind of limited right now. So she's not really having to go too far away.
Ryan Ashoo: No, so
Ryan Ashoo: They said that if she doesn't feel comfortable coming in. They don't have to, but if they want to keep working. They are not going to stop so
Ryan Ashoo: Working staying busy.
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, he's not eating as much. It's not sleeping as much as he could be been he's been through a lot
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: How about you. Are you getting enough sleep and food and taking care of yourself in those ways
Ryan Ashoo: I definitely didn't know
Ryan Ashoo: My greeting is still the same. I really still owe me
Helena Rouhe: Did you talk to Dr. Element about that.
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, I did, um, you know, and he recommended trying melatonin and, you know, working out during the days when I had before bed and watching TV, things like that.
Ryan Ashoo: And I really don't watch much the
Ryan Ashoo: And then, you know, I worked out. But I, it doesn't. None of it help my phone.
Helena Rouhe: And I
Ryan Ashoo: End up with a really bad headache in the morning because I
Ryan Ashoo: You know I fall asleep and I started dreaming. And then if I'm up
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, so the, so he understands that the reason you have sleep issues because of your night terrors, not because you can't go to sleep.
Right.
Helena Rouhe: Well, I guess we'll just kind of keep seeing if there's other ways to solve that, because I feel like there might be some different kind of medications, but maybe he's not comfortable having you take those so
Ryan Ashoo: Right. And I, I'm kind of against it, too.
Ryan Ashoo: I just, I don't know. I
Ryan Ashoo: Just never really done good getting put on met um
Ryan Ashoo: I don't know why it just
Ryan Ashoo: Makes me depressed makes me angry, frustrated. I just, you know, finally being clean and off of drugs. And yeah, I really kind of upset about being on the Suboxone program because I feel like I just traded one addiction for another you know is
Ryan Ashoo: Last Friday I got my prescription sent in. And then the Walmart that that was here was like 45 minutes from my house, but it's the only one that I'm allowed to go. This is the only one in the entire county and I can't leave the county well in your heart on fire.
Ryan Ashoo: So they weren't worried, and I couldn't pick up my prescription and they were like, well,
Ryan Ashoo: You know, we should be open tomorrow. Well, tomorrow came and they weren't open and then Monday came and they weren't open and then Monday night, I got a hold of the virtual clinic, who got a hold of another doctor and I had them transfer my prescription to Alberta.
Ryan Ashoo: And by the time my sister got there the pharmacy was closed.
Ryan Ashoo: So Tuesday I ended up having to get it won't by Tuesday I was already taking pretty hard.
Ryan Ashoo: You know, taking three scripts, a day and by four days without it. I was. It was starting to get bad and then
Ryan Ashoo: By the time I got it to the evening and took my first one. You know, I hadn't slept Sunday I hadn't worked Monday.
Ryan Ashoo: Tuesday night I took the one hasn't slept with up all night. Don't go into work at six in the morning.
Ryan Ashoo: And it comes all the way until last night restless leg. The anxiety.
Ryan Ashoo: And though.
Ryan Ashoo: You know, it's been rough
Helena Rouhe: Know,
Ryan Ashoo: It's been rough and you know it's like I was telling my counselor yesterday, it's a good thing that I couldn't get heroin, it's a good thing that I don't have any connect because I probably would have
Helena Rouhe: Well, I mean, yeah, that whole thing that the pharmacy is terrible and something that's avoided that that's the whole reason for the Suboxone right is under stressful situations to keep you from using and but I understand what you're
Helena Rouhe: What you're sharing is it was this or that you are having major kind of concerns there. So,
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, you can certainly talk to darker Omen about what it would look like for you to taper mean you can take her down maybe to a little bit different dosage that might make it a little less stressful is things were
Helena Rouhe: Difficult to get ahold of Madson the nuts, something to talk to him about
Ryan Ashoo: Well, even tapering like they only taper of a quarter of a milligram at a time and
Ryan Ashoo: Like even tapering after three or four days without the bozos you start feeling it.
Helena Rouhe: No, I wouldn't want you to do it right now, but I just think that once you stabilize again, maybe you start feeling the taper and and you can do it very slowly. But if you're worried about the amount that you're taking that is an option.
Ryan Ashoo: It's not necessarily the amount that I'm taking it's just being on it. Period. And I know
Ryan Ashoo: I don't want to be feeling like a drug addict anymore. Right.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah yeah
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, and I know that I need it because I know that right now. If I were to stop. I would go right back to using and I know
Helena Rouhe: So there. So there's your answer, but I understand where I understand that the both things.
Ryan Ashoo: Like cultural
Helena Rouhe: It is uncomfortable.
Helena Rouhe: Yeah, probably. I get it. I mean both things can be true. You know, you need it. But at the same time, it would be nice if you didn't. And it's frustrating because you are trying to
Ryan Ashoo: Reading Yeah, you know. Yeah, like people judge me because of it.
Yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Well, I, you know,
Helena Rouhe: I get it. I'm sorry that you're dealing with that struggle. But I have to say, I'm really impressed with your willingness to
Helena Rouhe: Hang in there and be determined and do all the things you need to do to keep yourself on the straight and narrow, and that's what it takes. It takes a lot of dedication
Helena Rouhe: To and determination to stay sober and to be in recovery until not let life and all its challenges, get in the way of that.
Helena Rouhe: And certainly have plenty of opportunities where you could have gone out, but you know that you're done with that life and and so you're going to they're going to be tough times, but those tough times are way better than if you went out and experience the consequences of going out.
Helena Rouhe: So just try and remember that, which I'm sure is what you do when you have these tough moments you know the other side is not worth it, even though it feels like in the moment.
Helena Rouhe: It might be worth it and why I'm advocating for you to continue to try and find ways to have candid conversations with your PO regarding your sister, because again you work so hard and all these ways
Helena Rouhe: I wouldn't want something that's well meaning like you have in your sister getting away of you being able to live a functional life in society. So
Helena Rouhe: Maybe keep finding ways to chip away at that a little bit so that that doesn't become a concern for you.
Helena Rouhe: Or stay a concern for you, I should say.
Helena Rouhe: All right, well,
Helena Rouhe: I think you're doing great, you're handling a lot of crazy stuff. Good for you.
Helena Rouhe: Anything else you
Helena Rouhe: Want me to be aware of or think that we need to touch base on
Ryan Ashoo: I think that's about it.
Helena Rouhe: Okay, so let's figure out a time when we can meet again in the past, we've done every two weeks. And then we had kind of some scheduling snafu with life.
Helena Rouhe: So what given everything that's going on. Are you okay with doing a touch base in two weeks, again, just to kind of see where everything stands, but I just feel like there's a lot of things happening right now so
Helena Rouhe: Two weeks would be April 2 and I know your
Helena Rouhe: Time okay for you.
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah. What time right
Ryan Ashoo: Right. Oh, yeah.
Helena Rouhe: Same time so 1pm Mountain Standard, is that okay
Ryan Ashoo: Yeah, that works.
Helena Rouhe: Okay. And then if you need to change it because your schedule is fluid and things are moving around. Then just, you know, shoot me an email or let me know. We'll move it around, if we need to.
Ryan Ashoo: Okay.
Ryan Ashoo: Okay, yo.
Helena Rouhe: And I'm going to reach out to Dr. Solomon and let them know that you made your appointment so that he's aware of that.
Ryan Ashoo: And
Helena Rouhe: You still have your group on Fridays. Right. Yes. Okay. Cool.
Helena Rouhe: All right, well, Ryan. Hang in there. You're doing amazing
Ryan Ashoo: They do up the good
Helena Rouhe: Work, take care of yourself and I'll see you in two weeks. But let me know if you need anything between now and then.
Ryan Ashoo: OK, I will
Helena Rouhe: Okay, take care. All right, bye.